The purpose of this study is to understand how various contextual cues affect our understanding of digital health information. For this study, imagine you recently had a doctor’s appointment where you had your blood sugar and blood pressure tested. Imagine that you logged onto your patient portal and are now seeing your test results. Your results will be shown with a visualization type called a Reference Range Number Line (RRNL). These visualizations show the exact test result with an arrow pointing to that number on the number line and a label above the arrow telling you the exact value. These visualizations also tell you whether or not the test result is normal by visually separating normal and abnormal ranges on the number line. For each of the images, there will be two reference range number lines on a page with their titles on the left. The title of each reference range number line tells you which test result it is showing.

You will be shown 16 visualizations in a random order. Each visualization will be different from all the others. For each visualization, you will answer 4 questions about it asking for the exact result of the test and whether or not that value is normal. You will be shown 8 visualizations in a row, then will be given a 5 minute break, then will complete the last 8 visualizations.

Your responses will be timed, but please do not rush. At the end of the study, we will tell you how many questions you got correct. The study will begin when you click the “Start” button on the bottom right corner.
